20_2 TreeList Header Filter: rewrite (#787)
DevExpress/devextreme-demos: JSDemos/Demos/TreeList/UsingHeaderFilter/description.md

> A header filter allows users to select values from a predefined set and filter rows by them. The values are listed in a popup menu. To open this menu, users can click header filter icons in column headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A header filter allows users to select values from a predefined set and filter rows by these values. The values are listed in a pop-up menu. To open this menu, users can click header filter icons in column headers.
```

A header filter allows users to select column values from a predefined set and use the selected values to filter rows. To display header filter icons, enable the **headerFilter**.[visible](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/headerFilter/#visible) property. Users can click this icon to open a popup menu and select values by which to filter data. If this icon should be hidden for a specific column, set the column's [allowHeaderFiltering](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#allowHeaderFiltering) property to **false**.

> To configure global header filter settings, use the [headerFilter](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/headerFilter/) object. You can also specify the [headerFilter](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/) object for individual columns. Common settings [enable search](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/headerFilter/#allowSearch) within the popup menu and specify the menu's [width](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/headerFilter/#width) and [height](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/headerFilter/#height). Individual column settings also allow you to change auto-generated filter values. For example, you can specify a different [dataSource](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/#dataSource) for an individual header filter or group the filter values by a custom [groupInterval](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/#groupInterval).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure global header filter settings, use the [headerFilter](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/headerFilter/) object. You can also specify the [headerFilter](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/) object for individual columns. Global settings [enable search](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/headerFilter/#allowSearch) within the popup menu and specify the menu's [width](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/headerFilter/#width) and [height](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/headerFilter/#height). Individual column settings also allow you to change auto-generated filter values. For example, you can specify a different [dataSource](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/#dataSource) for an individual header filter or group the filter values by a custom [groupInterval](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/#groupInterval).
```

> A header filter allows users to select column values from a predefined set and use the selection to filter rows. To enable this behavior, set **headerFilter**.[visible](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/headerFilter/#visible) to **true**. This feature can be combined with the [filter row](https://js.devexpress.com/Demos/WidgetsGallery/Demo/TreeList/UsingFilterRow).

Reviewer 3: Once again - what is the reason to give a link to the demo?

```suggestion
A header filter allows users to select column values from a predefined set and use the selected values to filter rows. To enable this behavior, set **headerFilter**.[visible](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/headerFilter/#visible) to **true**. This feature can be combined with the [filter row](https://js.devexpress.com/Demos/WidgetsGallery/Demo/TreeList/UsingFilterRow).
```

Author: To give a reference to the related functionality.

> A header filter allows users to select column values from a predefined set and use the selected values to filter rows. To enable this behavior, set **headerFilter**.[visible](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/headerFilter/#visible) to **true**. This feature can be combined with the [filter row](https://js.devexpress.com/Demos/WidgetsGallery/Demo/TreeList/UsingFilterRow).

Reviewer 2: - Displaying header filter icons is not a behavior.
- All filtering demos are located in the same group. There's no need to cross-reference them.

```suggestion
A header filter allows users to select column values from a predefined set and use the selected values to filter rows. To display header filter icons, enable the **headerFilter**.[visible](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/headerFilter/#visible) property. Users can click this icon to open a popup menu and select values by which to filter data. If this icon should be hidden for a specific column, set the column's [allowHeaderFiltering](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#allowHeaderFiltering) property to **false**.
```

> Once the header filter is enabled, a funnel icon is added to each column's header. To apply a filter, click this icon, choose value(s) and hit OK. You can use the **columns[]**.[headerFilter](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/) property to customize an individual filter. You can also disable it: for this, set **columns[]**.[allowHeaderFiltering](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#allowHeaderFiltering) to **false**.

Reviewer 3: 1. Let's get rid of passive and clarify that some actions are performed by users:.
1. > to customize an individual filter

I think that it's unclear which filter we mean - a filter from a drop-down list or a full header filter. Maybe we can remove this ambiguity?
1. >for this

Vladimir once found this phrase in my text and told me that this sounds like a bad translation from Russian. Let's get rid of it too.

```suggestion
When you enable the header filter, a funnel icon appears in each column's header. Users can click this icon to open the drop-down list and choose a value to filter by. You can use the **columns[]**.[headerFilter](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/) property to configure individual header filters. Set **columns[]**.[allowHeaderFiltering](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#allowHeaderFiltering) to **false** to disable a header filter.
```

> When you enable the header filter, a funnel icon appears in each column's header. Users can click this icon to open the drop-down list and choose values to filter by. You can use the **columns[]**.[headerFilter](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/) property to configure individual header filters. If a certain header filter should be removed, set **columns[]**.[allowHeaderFiltering](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#allowHeaderFiltering) to **false** .

Reviewer 2: Since this information is now in the paragraph above, I would to dedicate this paragraph to draw the distinction between common and individual header filter settings and highlighing the most valuable features.

```suggestion
To configure common header filter settings, use the [headerFilter](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/headerFilter/) object. You can also specify the [headerFilter](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/) object for individual columns. Common settings [enable search](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/headerFilter/#allowSearch) within the popup menu and specify the menu's [width](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/headerFilter/#width) and [height](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/headerFilter/#height). Individual settings also allow you to change auto-generated filter values. For example, you can specify a different [dataSource](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/#dataSource) for an individual header filter or group the filter values by a custom [groupInterval](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/#groupInterval).
```

> The default behavior is to display the matched rows and their ancestors. The [Filter Modes](https://js.devexpress.com/Demos/WidgetsGallery/Demo/TreeList/FilterModes) demo shows how to use other display modes.

Reviewer 2: All filtering demos are located in the same group. There's no need to cross-reference them.

```suggestion
```

> For details on header filters, see the [Header Filter](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/TreeList/Filtering_and_Searching/#Header_Filter) article.

Reviewer 2: In the future, we will remove most of the guides, so if we point the reader somewhere, it better be an API reference article.

```suggestion
```
